Upgrade guide (to current) (#1194)
polkadot-js/api: CHANGELOG.md

# 0.90.0-beta.x

If you are upgrading form an older version, use the CHANGELOG hand-in-hand with the [migration guide](UPGRADING.md).

- Support substrate v7 metadata

> - Runtime types have been extended and has been moved to definitions instead of classes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Runtime types have been extended and moved to definitions instead of classes
```

  - Additional types have been addedd for the modules
  - `api.derive.contract` is now `api.derive.contracts` to align with the substrate 2.x rename. (Feture detection is used so it supports both 1.x and 2.x chains)
  - Addition of `api.derive.elections`

- Support latest substrate 2 v6 metadata with module constants using `api.consts`.
  - The api now uses the module name for the storage methods, aligning module names for consistency with transactions. The methods of the grandpa module moved from `api.query.grandpaFinality` to `api.query.grandpa`.
  - Internally the `@polkadot/extrinsics` and `@polkadot/storage` have been moved to `@polkadot/api-metadata` and are now accessible as `@polkadot/api-metadata/extrinsics` and `@polkadot/api-metadata/storage`, respectively.
  - **Breaking Change** Vote interface extends U8a instead of i8. Vote properties can be accessed via the `isAye`, `isNay`, and `conviction` getters. Votes can still be constructed as before with a raw JS boolean, a SCALE encoded Boolean, an i8 number, or a JS object with properties `aye` and `conviction` defined.

- Support V2 Extrinsics in addition to V1, v2 includes an optional `tip`

>   - An additon to this support, the `Signer` interface has deprecated the `sign` method and replaced it with `signPayload`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - in addition to this support, the `Signer` interface has deprecated the `sign` method and replaced it with `signPayload`
```
